Setting up an Android emulator is a very, very simple thing, but unless you know where to look, it
can be quite a challenge.
So on the screen where it says, welcome to Andrew, we obviously don't have a project yet.
We don't have anything to open.
But we have this little configure button over here.
And if we press it, it'll show us all of the different things that we can use in order to configure
Android as an environment.
And if we go look at something called eved manager, that's the Android virtual device manager.
What you're going to see over here, if you spread it out a bit, is that we have a pixel, a pixel
three a already configured.
Now, if you don't have a device configured or something is going wrong, you can also create a virtual
device and you can create one to your own specifications, pixel for pixel for Excel.
And so all you have to do is press pixel for.
Then you can just go over here and say, OK, what version of Android do I want wanted to run to I want
to run Cupie Orio, all of those different things.
And so if we go over to the 86 images, you can obviously see that we already have the version are downloaded
in 86.
The one over here is a 64 bit above.
So the difference is the ones that you've downloaded don't have the download sign beside them.
So you can go look at different types of images that you could put on it.
You could put Newgate Marshmallow Lollipop, you could test devices with many different versions.
We're going to use the one that we already installed, which is are you going to press next?
And we're going to say, OK, the setup orientation is going to be portrait of that good stuff, you
know, pretty basic.
We're not going to change too much and we're going to finish.
And now we have a pixel four as well.
So we have a pixel three and a pixel four.
Amazing.
And so now that we have our virtual devices.
Well, what's the next step for us?
Well, if we open up.
Terminal, so the next step for us is obviously to go back to our project, which was in documents and
then projects and then inside of there we have focus time.
And right now, if we can package Jason, we can see that we have the yarn Android command.
So let's run that yarn android.
And what that's going to do is it's going to start Android, which is going to, in the background,
make sure that it runs the metro bundler.
It finds all of the relevant resources it needs and then try to figure out, hey, well, can I actually
run a android?
And then you could see no Android connected device was found.
No emulators could be started automatically.
Huh, interesting, so let's go back to Android studio then, because it's clear that we have our emulators,
but it's not able to start them.
So how do we go about that?
Well, if we go to a manager, we can just press the little button here.
And with the play button is going to do is it's going to start our emulator for us to make sure that
in the cases where he isn't able to automatically start it or something went wrong, that we have that
control.
And so it's going to request some things.
We're going to say, OK.
And then as the emulator starts up, we'll be in a good position to kind of test out our application.
Over here.
You can see it's still a black screen.
Be patient, starting up an Android emulator can be a long process, and it really depends on how fast
it goes based on your system set up like how much ram you have with a processor you're running.
So you'll be very patient.
And if you have a local Android device, you can always scan the QR code and run it locally instead
of on the emulator.
But this is just a possibility in case you do not have an Android device.
So let's go ahead and let's control see inside of the manager and let's do an android once more.
And what that's going to do is it's going to reboot the metro bundler.
And if we go over here, it's downloading the client, installing the export a client app on the emulator.
So it clearly found everything it needed.
It found our current emulator that we started.
And so after the installation, what it's going to do is it's going to boot up focus time in the emulator.
And so, as you can see, the emulator has started the app and it's building the JavaScript bundle,
just like it did for iOS, and once this bundle has finished building, we have a fully running focus
time locally.
That's amazing.
We can run a both on iOS and Android.
So if you're missing one or the other device and you want to run locally, you don't want to run inside
of snap of a snack, you can use these emulators, these virtual devices that run on your computer to
kind of be able to build and run expo without any issues.
And as you can see here now, we're able to run our application locally and test it out in a way that
we could on iOS as well.